All right I want to spend just a couple of minutes here just to highlight some important points about
parallel circuits and Kirchoff's voltage law.
Remember our voltage law was if you add up all of the potential differences across the elements when
you perform a closed loop those must sum to zero.
So there's kind of three important aspects that come out of this.
It means number one that if you do this it means that the voltage across any branch between two points.
So for example I have points and be here.
There's a lot of different ways I can go from point A to Point B.
I can go through the battery this way I can go just across the resistance through the three ohm resistor
or through the six ohm resistor it means this law here will look at this in a minute.
It means that the voltage difference between those two points it doesn't matter how you get from 8 to
be the voltage difference has to be the same OK.
Another consequence of this is if the voltage difference is the same between each one.
But they have different resistances right.
Look at this branch here is a six ohm resistance.
This one has a three.
This one here has an equivalent of a three ohm resistance.
So if the voltage difference between these two points is going to be the same but the value of the resistance
is different.
It means that branches that have a large resistance are going to have a small current and that makes
sense.
That's just a consequence of Ohm's law.
And the other consequence is well what happens now if the total resistance is the same if the total
resistance is the same.
You expect that the current to be the same because the voltage drop across going from 8 to B has to
be the same across the branch.
So let's go ahead and show that now.
So what I'm going to do is let's again just label some current values on label total current.
I like this.
Now let's call this branch number one so it's going to have a current one.
This one here is going to have a current two and this one here is going to have a current i3.
All right.
So if you are going to apply the loop rule Well it doesn't matter which one.
Let me say I start down over here.
Let's call this point C and I'm going to go around and do a clockwise loop.
So let's do a clockwise loop around the lower branch here.
First thing you would encounter would be that 12 volt batteries you get plus 12 and then you get a voltage
drop across the one arm resistance and crossing it in the direction of the current.
And then also right after that I'd get another voltage drop across this tumor's is actually what you
would get here would be a voltage drop.
Look something like this so one multiplied by the current one and mine is two multiplied by the current
one.
And that there would have to be equal to zero.
So if you rearrange this equation bring the negative signs on the other side and you can combine both
of those but you're going to get 12 over here has to be equal to what are we going to get.
That's three multiplied by one so that's really the equation for this lower branch.
So let's repeat now for the center branch again the battery term looks the same.
That's plus 12.
And now I'm going to get a voltage drop across that 3 ohm resistance.
That's minus three multiplied by the current two and that equals to zero again bringing the negative
sign on the other side.
What you get here is 12 equals 2 3 2.
There is a equation too.
And the last one.
Same thing except this time it's minus six multiplied by the current three flowing through it.
OK.
I'll bring the negative sign on the other side.
So we get six i3 All right.
So let's look at our three equations over here.
The box them up here so they just.
Nice and clear.
There one there's another one and there's another one you see they're all equal to 12.
So all of these terms on this side on the right hand side must be equal to each other.
So we must have three times either one equals two three times I two.
Well what can we conclude from this equation.
We can conclude we can cancel out those threes.
They're the same.
So you conclude right away that the current one must be equal to the current Aitu.
That's very important so why would their currents be the same.
Well the currents would be the same because this is due to the third point over here because the total
resistance here right the total resistance here is three ohms the total resistance of the center branch
is also three ohms so we see that the resistance is the same for each branch here which means that the
current must be the same.
So let's have a look now at the other equation.
Third one the third one now we have
six i3 must be equal to.
Let's just compare to the first one.
3.
1.
Well what can we cancel out.
Here we can factor out a factor of three here.
If I do that I'm going to be left with this.
So at the end the relationship I get between the current i 1 and I 3 is this one.
It says that the current i3 are two times the current i3 must be equal to the current one.
So I three is simply I 1 divided by 2.
That's another important expression here that we get.
So it says that the current in this upper branch whatever it is it has to be half of the current in
branch number 1 and actually also half of the current and branch number two.
And the reason is half.
Again this comes down to Point number two right.
You get less current flowing in branches that have a higher resistance.
OK.
Again we're dealing with a parallel circuit.
You must have the voltage drop across each branch equal to the same.
And in this case it must also always be equal to 12 volts because that is the drop of the voltage.
If I go along this bottom branch with the battery OK we could have got these relationships directly
if instead of doing a loop starting at point C and going around if I would have done a loop starting
at point A and imagine going around counter-clockwise I would have gotten to this first equation over
here.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Just as a practice.
So I'm going to go from A to B.
Let's call it D and E.
So what if I would go around this loop over here and do a Kirchoff's voltage law.
So the first two terms I would get.
Well again I get the voltage drop terms right here I get minus one.
That's the voltage multiplied by the current.
I want get a voltage drop across the 2 ohm resistor minus two times I won and now I've decided to go
to Point B and then go through the 3 ohm resistor except in this case when I go through the 3 ohm resistor
I'm going in the opposite direction of the current.
So that means that there has to be a voltage gain given by three times.
I too and now I go back to Point A.
I sum up all the voltages those must be able to zero.
And you see you can group both of those terms together.
You're going to get minus three.
One plus three Aitu.
At the end we end up getting.
And this must be equal to zero.
So look at this equation here.
You could factor out those threes.
You can bring one on the other side and you automatically see that one must be equal to the current.
Two because they have the same resistance and so that's kind of an important point to highlight that
comes out of this Kirchoff's voltage law.